Now, you were in the athletic department until
what year? Summer of 67. 67. So that's how many
years? Well, it's roughly around 10. 10. Who, as on
the rest of the campus, outside athletics, who
were the people that you turned to? The teachers.
Well, there must have been some key assistant
deans or associate deans. Well, sure. I worked
through the teacher
first, and then the deans when it came to the
tallying up grade points and so, and there were
always kids that were sliding. One of my main pet
guys was old Robert Cortez. I didn't let him take
English for four semesters and then he made B's the
rest of the way. And I told Dee Powell when they
were, Bob was having a hard time I guess as a guard
and they moved him tackle and he was outstanding. I
said he just could not you know he got to have little
chunks and stay with him because he was and he's
down the valley coaching has been for years. Uh all
right in admissions uh who did you work with most
closely? Well the first year uh with with Coach
Myers
I don't know whether you were ever familiar with
the registrar's office. You sent a transcript.
Finally, it was illegal, but I had the people from
the public schools send them to me, and I would
carry them over there. There would be a little old
girl who goes through, and she checks all of these,
one chemistry, one biology, and so forth. And then
those that are deviant from that, they go to Mr.
Cramer. and go into Mr. Perriman's office and the
damn things. Now, this is not all athletes, but
they were in there. Stacked up. And then if he could
make a decision, the next level, they went to Mr.
Heaton. And, of course, we had the same problem
through Ms. Mitchell if they were transferred
from the junior college. Let me interrupt. I need
to... All right, we were about to talk about Lloyd
Heaton. Oh, thank you. Describe him and his
functions and habits. Well, Lloyd Heaton was the
director. I don't know what his exact title was. We
just called him the registrar in those days. He was
in charge of the registrar's office. They had Miss
Mitchell for transfer students. Mr. Pearman was
his assistant.
Milton Edge. And then Jim Alexander, I guess, did
the graduate check. He was on the scholarship
committee, the admission committee, academic
county, and the executive committee. And here we
start battling it. Yes, oh gosh, I just, I know one
time, you remember when, were you here when He was
kidnapped. The guy was in his car and made him go by
the bank and withdraw some money. And they took
off. About 9 o'clock that night, the phone rang.
They said, Elmer. I said, is something wrong,
Elmer? And he said, no. He said, I just want to know
why you did it. Why did I do what? He said, kidnap me.
But we had running gun battles. Shelby and I did on
basketball players. And I went to the conference
two different times. And they were wrong. To get
people admitted? Their criteria was wrong. Now,
was Mr. Heaton, was he... He's a head stick. Was he
comparatively... Arbitrary. Arbitrary. That's
a personal opinion. That's right. All right. Now,
by your use... Well, on this bunch, back up to Mr.
Heaton. Coach Myers. I said, well, Coach, these
kids don't meet admission requirements. She
said, what should I do about it? I said, you need to
call Mr. Rutter. And so I called the list, you know,
because I'd interviewed most of the kids during
the spring. We go up there and we're sitting,
there's Mr. Heath, Mr. Rutter, Coach Myers and Bud
Denton, and we're sitting around the General's
desk there. Those were experiences that are just
wonderful for me. And
he said, what's the problem here, Bud? I said,
well, we have some students that are late getting
their applications in, and some of them have this
difficulty. And he turned to Mr. Heaton and he
said, well, we'll lose our accreditation. I can
still see. And he turned to me and he said, well,
what do you think, bud? I said, well, I think the
kids can do the work, Mr. Ernie. He said, okay, I
want their grades on my desk every grade period.
Mr. Heaton, here's the list. Take care of it. That
was it. I had my, and he gave me an exit interview
when I left. I just, I was flattered, really. Now,
Mr. Heaton predates you on the campus. Oh, yeah.
That lady, Sarah Holmgreen, her husband's dad
was, I guess, the financial man back, way back. And
Mr. Heaton then served under many different
presidents. Oh, yeah, indeed. Well, I don't think
he was ever under a dean. And retired for reasons of
age. There was no scandal or anything else. Oh,
well, there was one case. I've got to tell you, Bob
Murray was the academic... person. I can't
remember where he was, what dorms and then breezy
was in law hall and had charge of my athletes later
when we moved to law and 15
Murray called me one day. He said, Can you come up
here? And I went up stairs. He said,
You know the registrar hadn't moved into the new
officers. That was that little building there.
And he had a set of keys in his hand. He said, you know
what these are? No. He said, these are the keys to
Mr. Heaton's office. And they hadn't even moved
in. So he had called the boy. Asked him for any extra
keys. I don't know where he got them until this day.
Some kid, probably one of his dorm supervisors,
had gotten them. Some kid had come up to him and
found them or had them. They still don't know where
they came from. Out of his desk? What were Mr.
Heaton's pet peeves? His way. Going my way. That's
terrible. Knowing that, How would you and your
colleagues, how would you all work it? Oh, I didn't
work around him. I just went to his office when it
got down to that and always carried my little
handbook from the conference, you know. All
right. Now, when you, the two of you disagreed, did
he carry a grudge later? Oh, no. I never had that
feeling. He was against the basic division for
some reason because, one, I know back over the
years, Dee and I had worked together. I don't know
whether you were here or not, but we had put
footprints to register. And I don't know what it
was, but we had the scholastic officers and
non-coms in each of the units. And they would bring
them over, and we'd worked out all this mechanics,
you know, that military type stuff. And I know,
went out there, one registration, and Mr.
Perrymore was just beside himself. He said, where
are the troops? Well, we'd already finished
registration. He couldn't believe it. In a couple
of hours. That was registration during all your
years in Sabisa. Then, don't I remember, some
summer registrations in G. Raleigh? No. That's
later? I used to. pull the athlete's card, you
know, they do first. And I'd always get Alice's and
register for her all over again. Right now, where
did the students eat in registration time? Over at
Duncan. Oh, that's right. Everybody ate at Duncan
briefly. Or the MSC. And am I correct in
remembering that almost every faculty member
took a little turn at registration. Oh, yeah. I
know the history did in English.
You know, it was possible, the secretaries, and of
course there was no objection in the early days of
your teacher assignment list where they had them.
Now, math would turn up, unfortunately, with a
bunch of sections that never had teachers
assigned to them, but there were good math
teachers, and if you could do those types of
things. Who were those good math teachers? Well, I
thought Jack Kent was for upper level. John
Kinkenny. Kubrick Kent. Yeah, he'd be upper
level, and I was trying to think of guys in my was in
my church. What about in English? Oh, Sid Cox and
Jernigan and Louis Hauer. Oh, they were a bunch of
good people. Chemistry?
Well, Callaway, one of the years he was here.
Biology? Oh, Medlin Dobson.
He had a bunch of graduate students that taught.
They were superb teachers. I had a few of them as
tutors later. Before they became graduates.
History?
I was partial to history anyway. I thought the
whole department. Economics was a little more
difficult.
I
had majored in English. Economics 203 and 4 when I
was a student. I wish I had taken them. I did take
them both over when I came back.
Were you at the Aspirations Report in the early
60s? Is that big self-study? Oh yeah, I have a copy
somewhere. Alright. Did you have any... No. Okay.
Austin will have to tell you because we just did
assign tasks on Rudder's deal for the military.
I've got a copy of that someplace. I haven't
unpacked my stuff from 13 years ago that's moving
from high school. What do you now think about the
aspirations report and its importance? Well, I'd
feel better if I knew who was on it. I don't know
anybody, you know. But you know some of the
recommendations, non-compulsory core. Oh, you
mean that one back? Yeah. Oh, yeah. The fact is I had
made a study of my class, I guess five years out from
what I assumed was the normal graduation of class
of 45. And it turned out that the girls in the family
outnumbered the boys 3-2.
There were some later high-powered guys in there.
Of course, they're nuts. Some of these Aggies, you
know, they just get carried away. I was listening
to Hall, and I knew him back when he was a freshman.
These stories that if people evaluate A&M on those
stories...
Anyway. All right, let's see. Then let's go back to
athletics. Myers, then Fulberg. Which coach, all
the coaches you worked with, the football
coaches, Bryant, Myers, Fulberg, Stallings. I
was two years with Gene. All right. Describe, you
mentioned Myers. Well, Hank had been my roommate.
when we were here at A&E. He went into service after
I did and I guess Blake was head stick at West Point.
He picked up him and Yeoman and Youngfold there.
They were all here. Yeah, make believe I didn't
know this Fulberg. Tell me his name and where he was
from. Henry Fulberg, Oak Cliff, Dallas. Played at
Sunset. Sunset Bison. I used to go with his sister.
So we were, you know. But I was disappointed he
didn't have a strong coaching staff. Old Craig was
probably the... The best one. He was a PhD in
history. Like Jones, you know, from Colgate. I do.
I had forgotten that. Oh yeah.
We still correspond.
The fact is, when we were recruiting, when Hank was
here, we'd have these Pennsylvania kids and their
parents, when they came out, they'd come out here
and we'd have supper and everything. And I,
Liptack, does that rank? Yeah, John Liptack. I
don't think he played much football, but he's a big
wheel down in Houston. Were, was Coach Fulberg
different from the others in his academic
concerns? Oh no, he was strong academically. In
fact, he was the one, really when you get down to it,
that made the big changes in athletics. We
centralized the housing, centralized the food,
you know, if you weren't in season, you were just
kind of, and he didn't buy it. And this one, going to
class. We had a bad situation over there, and of
course Hoyle had already gone many years, but Hart
Hall had always been a sinkhole, really. And he
went over there, pulled a surprise inspection,
his head athletic director, He was most
displeased in lunch that day. He told him that he
would be back there at 1 o'clock. That place better
be spotless. He went back at 1 o'clock, and it was
fun. Now, who lived in Henderson and who lived in
Hart Hall? Football, basically, and the top kids
of basketball. In Henderson? In Henderson. And
all other sports? Over and hard. And then we got,
later on, we got part of law. And there were almost,
oh, married athletes. A few. Well, that was the
problem. We had day students, a day student
military unit, and then we had the Air Force and
Army and HART and the Air Force and Army and
Henderson and Law. And we got all those moved to 15
right across from Henderson and Law for the
overflow. We changed the commandant. Hank went to
the commandant and he changed their drill period
for football from Saturday, can you imagine?
Moved all the drills to two. Air Force and Army, all
four. Then the following year, when Tom Murrah, or
it may have been two years later, when Tom Murrah
was sealed with the infantry outfit, they were the
top. You can't tell me athletes can't march. I'm
not going to buy that. But they were both premium
outfits. And you look back on that sort of thing,
and it doesn't appear anywhere. Nobody will know
anything about it, but it's there. Gosh, with the
women's program, that must be a real challenge.
All right, now, with the three head coaches that
came after Coach Bryant, Myers, Fulberg, and then
Stallings, they all... did not remain because
they didn't win enough games.
I wrote Jim Meyers' speech or his presentation
that he was going to leave. I said, you know, you
low-key this and leave. Well, he got up there and
just went berserk in a sense. But they had told him
he was staying. That was the bad part. Told him he
was staying? Regardless of the Texas game. Oh, oh,
oh. And then? And then Axton. Right. He had a board,
really. All right, you're saying they. As far as
you know, it was the board. Oh, absolutely. Okay.
But it was not the president. Well. As far as you
know. As far as I know. All right. Then Stallings is
hired. But nobody knew it. Bones didn't know. Hank
damn sure didn't know. Describe Starling's
arrival and reaction and so forth. The only thing I
know is that we were told to come down to the lounge
and he was introduced here as Hank.
All right, now, all of you knew Starling's. Well, I
knew him from student days. What was the general
reaction? Well, I guess the former students must
have seen him as a reincarnation of Coach Bryant.
He was only 29, and he was smart enough to keep Elmer
Smith here with him. And Elmer was a, you know, he
was that follow-a-type guy. Elmer was a coach? A
line coach, defensive coach. He was really good. I
remember sitting up when Coach Bryant was here,
sitting up on that old scoreboard. They had a stand
out there. And Elmer was checking the defenses.
And he'd go in at halftime. You'd see the chains
that came over. If it was bad. It was never too bad.
Even in the worst days, they were excellent. Did
Coach Stallings change any of the routine for all
of y'all? All of those people were very gracious to
me. They just, you know, you go through the trauma
of whether you're going to have a job when the new
coach comes in. But each one of those people told me
right off, we need you type thing, which was, I
appreciate it. Of course, I was getting up into my
hole. 40s, you know. Let's see, and all right, now
you then leave and what? Go to public schools. Why
did you leave? Well, they had been after me and they
had a lady over there, Ms. Dow, who was a widow, and
She was ready to retire. Of course, I had a good
reputation in the community, so they asked me. Did
they pay you more money? Absolutely. $1,000.
$1,000. I couldn't believe it. And I got credit for
my 18 years. Oh, and this is what year? 67. 67. Okay.
As you look back, what were the key... steps,
decisions? Only made two. No, no, not you, but the
institution made during those years, whether you
had a hand in them or not. Well, I think first of all
was the co-education. Of course, we had old boys.
It wasn't a problem with me, but that little old
brief study I made of about 100 classmates who
returned their questionnaires.
And then of course we made that study for Mr. Rudder
about the military and the changes there. And of
course being married with no children at the time,
it was ideal for Alice to finish.
They'd go during the summer and they had a few
classes, I recall. She says not after three
o'clock for the women, veterans' wives. But she
got her degree. She was an honors student.
In the aspirations report, I was the secretary and
wrote the first part. And one of the arguments we
made was that if we didn't co-educate and make the
core non-compulsory, we said we're afraid we'll
be very small and very narrow. That's right. Kind
of like VMI and the Citadel. We may have been a
junior college. Yeah. Then we said if we don't go
through racial integration, we're going to end up
in the courtroom. We didn't know about Title IX
coming ahead in the future. Well, I think they've
always been ahead. Yeah. That's one, you know, I
don't, less does the athletics, and I just do my
century and other contributions to the A&M Club,
but I just, they do a good job. It's too big. That
would be my main criticism. I think we should have
cut off maybe a little less.
If the enrollment had been capped, should we then
have become much more selective? Do we pick If we
admit 5,000 a year, do we admit the best 5,000 that
apply? I can't buy this selective admission
because I've worked with too many students over
the years that, in fact, Billy Lay was always very
gracious to me, but he could tell me in a nice way,
no, you know. But I had several little old gals out
there, straight A. They went to summer school, you
know, that was the thing. You had to take 12 hours, a
high-ranking graduate student. And there were
many of those. How would you have decided? I don't
know. The first hundred.
I don't really know. You know, it's kind of like the
Opportunity Awards. You've got less spots than
you've got people. What about this man, Earl
Rudder? How important was he? I thought he was,
this stool would have been down the drain if it
hadn't been for Mr. Rudder and then subsequently
Jack Wood. Because that, you know, I've been, the
military showed me that. Boy, you've got to have
that leadership. And I remember talking to Mr.
Rudder on that exit interview, and he said, well,
what can we do about this? What can we do about this?
Asking my opinion. I just couldn't give him much.
Can you give examples of where you think Mr. Rudder
demonstrated his leadership ability? Well, he
made some mistakes, but he went out and got all
those National Science Foundation. God, you talk
about a rock. But you have to work through that. And
you remember Zener said that everybody in math and
science will take their test on Tuesday night.
Well, Alice, you know Haskell? Good to see you.
Thank you.
Myers got that straightened out, too. He brought
it to Mr. Rudder's teacher because I don't think he
knew about it. And the kids were going to play
Wednesday games, you know, the freshman. Missing
their exam, couldn't take it. Get a zero. That
won't wash. But anyway, I thought he was, I knew him
personally, and I had gone, in fact, his Margaret
Rutter's brother and I were freshmen in the same
outfit. Did
you work with young Ed Cooper any? Just knew him
when he was the, I mean, the president's
assistant. I always liked Ed. And what was his
function as far as you knew? We used to call them in
the Army dog robbers. Everything, like they did
me, well, let Ed take care of it. He can handle that.
And he could write, boy, and speak, you know. Like,
I never thought that Mr. Rudder was a particularly
good speaker. Oh, no. But I also thought he never
claimed to be either. No. The first time I heard
him, I was a class agent, so I was on the inner
sanctum for about 30 years. Went over to the
mid-winter conference, and he'd just been hired.
Got up from there and said, it's my happy
privilege, you know, just that old, I could go back
to the hills of East Tennessee, and he said, now I
want to make a statement here so that there won't be
any question about your understanding. He said,
these people who say that they were my freshman
roommates were not. I went to John Talton for two
years before I came to A&M. of course that kind of
big government. Do you remember any other good
rudder stories to share? No, I just never had other
than the exit interview and one time there was a
question about a boy's grades that he wanted me to
check. And you remember Carl Swatan? I kept a book
on Carl because he was trouble. You knew it just as
soon as I... When you see some people, and that's
not fair, I'm sure, but I said, boy, I better
document this. And I did. And his dad raised all
kinds of hell. Couldn't get him out. And he flunked
Dan Davis's course. And I had how many conferences
I'd had with Dan. How many absences? This guy had 12
or 14 absences. Never turned in any work. And that
was just that course. And there were others. And I
had put all this down. Typed it out for Mr. Rudder.
And he told these board members, here's the case.
The guy is not eligible. But he tried to get into
Navarro. And then he went to Clemson. Then he
signed Crowe and got picked up stealing the
playbook from the New Orleans Saints. I guess he's
over at Huntville now, I don't know. Let's see,
what are some of your proudest moments as you look
back on your A&M years? Well, I really couldn't
tell you. I was turned in, Pete Hardesty beat me out
for that best award the first year they gave it, do
you remember? Dealing with personnel. There were
only five or four awards that year, but he beat me
out on that. But just to be turned in by your
teachers for me.
And then, of course, we're real proud of our class,
the class of 45. There was a lot of sacrifice, you
will see, in Scruggs putting together a real nice
book. Let's see, if you could go back to the years as
an employee and change anything, what would you
change? I couldn't because I don't have any
insight at all for that. Okay. Just size-wise,
maybe. All right, as we're getting close to the end
of this part, now we'll go back and talk about your
student years after a little bit. Well, I'm going
to have to. Can we? Oh, okay. Okay. right give me go
ahead give me about another 10 minutes oh yeah yeah
all right do you have any personal papers or any
other memorabilia that if you ever have any that
you want to part with please give it to the archives
at the cushing library yeah particularly if
they're i've been kind of waiting on a lot of that
stuff because we we did keep a lot of The fact is
there's a little deal we did in A Company Infantry
when the war broke out. We got together and signed
this deal and we're going to meet in Dallas on such
and such a period after the war is over. For
example, if nothing else, let them make a Xerox
copy.